The repository was create to make avaliable the C++ code used in the graphical user interface of the published paper: Queiroz, D. M., Lee, W. S., Schueller, J. K., & Santos, E. D. (2017). Development and test of a low cost portable soil apparent electrical conductivity sensor using a Beaglebone Black. In 2017 ASABE Annual International Meeting (p. 1). American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers. Paper #17-00062.

The C++ software was developed for a sensor system based on BeagleBone Black to measure the soil apparent electrical conductivity (soil ECa) using the resistivity method with four electrodes in a Wenner configuration.

The software creates a graphical user interface. It was programmed in C++ using Qt IDE (Integrated Development Environment) version 4.8.6. This IDE was provided by the Qt Company. The idea is that the user transfers this code to the BeagleBone Black and compiled it using the qt4 tool available in Debian 8.2, the operating system running on BeagleBone Black. The Blacklib C++ Library version 2.0 (an open source code available at http://blacklib.yigityuce.com/) was used for generating the PMW signal, and codes presented by Molloy (2014) were implemented for reading the GPS sensor in the UART port and for reading the two analog signals generated by the soil ECa sensor. The graphical interface allowed the user to choose the signal frequency for the electrical current signal to be applied to the soil probe. The software includes a kriging functions to make spatial interpolation of the soil apparent electrical conductivity and generates the map of ECa and the interpolation error map.

The codes available were developed by Daniel M Queiroz, Emanuel D. T. S. Sousa, Wonsuk Daniel Lee, John K. Schueller.

The codes were written by ourselves using the knowlegde we have gotten after years of working with computer programming. If you find any bugs in our code (we hope that no bugs are found), please, send us a message to the email dmqueiroz@gmail.com.

Vicosa, MG, Brazil, October 28, 2019.

Reference Molloy, D. (2014). Exploring BeagleBone: tools and techniques for building with embedded Linux. Wiley.